Now that I've given you a
high level view of the search
with parallel
streams class methods
process stream and process
input, let's step in
and visualize them a little
bit more definitively.
So we'll start by
visualizing process stream.
This, of course, searches
a list of input strings.
What we get is input--
is a list of input
strings that contain
the works of Shakespeare.
And then we convert that
list of input strings
into a parallel stream by
calling the parallel stream
factor method.
And we'll end up, of
course, with substreams
with chunks of input strings.
In fact, each substream
has one input string
that gets processed
because that's
the way the spliterator
for array list works.
What we then have is this
stream of input strings,
which will be processed in
parallel on separate threads
and cores as part of
the fork-join pool--
the common fork-join pool.
The next thing that
happens is we'll
have those streams of strings
processed by the map aggregate
operation.
And this, of course, will call
the process input method--
which we'll look at in
more detail in a second--
which is passed in as a
method reference behavior
to the map
intermediate operation.
And that will go off in search
for phrases in each input
string in parallel.
We'll look at that shortly.
So keep in mind we will
have parallelism going on
in two dimensions
here, parallelism
at the level of each
input string, each work
of Shakespeare, and
then parallelism
at the level of each phrase
that we're searching for.
Now what you get back
from this map call
will be a stream of
lists of search results
because that's what
process input returns,
a list of search results.
So we'll have a stream of
search results coming back.
And keep in mind that some of
these lists of search results
may be empty if there
weren't any phrases that
matched a given input string,
a given work of Shakespeare.
We'll talk more about how
that gets dealt with later.
That stream of lists
of search results
gets then fed into the collect
terminal operation, which,
of course, triggers all
the intermediate operation
processing, setting all
the wheels in motion,
and that will naturally
run everything
on the worker threads
in the fork-join pool.
And that will, of course,
be mapped to the underlying
processor core.
So it'll have lots of
parallelism cranking away.
And what gets
returned here will be
a list of-- lists of
search results based
on encounter order.
So again whatever the order
that the works of Shakespeare
were examined, that'll
be the order in which
the collected list of search
results come back, some empty,
some perhaps not empty.
This is done, of course, by
the to list factoring method
on the collector's utility
class which, as you recall,
returns a collector, a
non-concurrent collector, which
works in a parallel
stream as we'll see later.
And this non-concurrent
collector
will use an array list to
accumulate the elements
into the final mutable
result container, which
is the result from collect.
Let's now talk about how to
visualize the process input
method.
So this, of course, is
the method that's called.
It's a kind of a subroutine
by process stream.
Process input finds phrases in
an input string in parallel.
It takes as input the
list of phrases to find
and uses the parallel
stream factoring
method to convert
the list of strings
into a stream of strings.
So we have a stream
of strings, and all
of these stream of
strings will then
be processed in parallel in
the common fork-join pool using
its multiple threads and the
mapping to the multiple cores,
just like process stream.
So, again, lots of parallelism
going on in this example.
In this particular case, the
stream of phrases defined
gets fed into the map
intermediate operation, which
ends up using the search for
phrase method, which we've
talked about before, to search
for phrases in a given input
string.
And that will output a
stream of search results.
And this time we're going
to go ahead and filter
this stream of search results
to get rid of anything
that happens to be empty.
So if we end up with nothing
but empty search results,
we'll end up with a list
of empty search results.
If we have essentially
any results at all,
we'll end up basically letting
that pass through the filter.
And then everything
will be output
as a stream of non-empty
search results, some of which
may be empty if
there's no matches.
And we'll then go ahead and
collect everything together,
which as usual triggers
intermediate operations
and then collects the stream
of search results into a list--
sorry, into a-- it takes
the stream of results,
collects it into a list, which
is, of course, an array list
because we use the
two-list factoring
method on the collector's
utility class.
And then we end up returning
a list of search results,
and this goes back to the
thread that called this.
And, of course,
this list will be
ordered in encounter order,
where encounter order here
means the ordering in which the
phrases occurred in the input
to process--
the input to parallel string.
As I mentioned before,
if none of the phrases
match the input string, we'll
simply have an empty list.
And that will be dealt
with later by the flat map
operation in print phases--
print phrases.
So once again just to
recap very important point
to recognize with
parallel streams,
the actual processing
of a parallel stream
differs a little bit from the
visualization I've been giving.
I've been giving a
visualization that perhaps
gives the impression
that things are
processed a layer at a time.
And while it's sort of
like that logically,
that's not in fact how
the implementation works.
Instead, what happens is when
the terminal operation is
reached, the stream will start
pulling data from the source,
and it traverses through all
of the intermediate operations
in the stream,
working on that data.
And that, of course, will rerun
within the common fork-join
pool-- within a worker thread
in the common fork-join pool.
So everything gets done using
what's called integrated layer
processing to pull
the data through all
the various
intermediate operations.
And then, of course, ultimately
the terminal operation
will end up plopping the result
into the appropriate collector,
and--
since we're using collect--
and it'll go ahead and
collect the results
using the accumulator.
The reason again why it's done
this way, there's two reasons.
Number one, it supports short
circuit operations, and number
two, it's much,
much more efficient
because we don't have to
incur unnecessary context
switching, synchronization,
memory management, and cash
management overhead.
It works very
smoothly very cleanly.